# SQL_Library_Management
A local library is updating their management system. Previously they manually wrote down all books in their stock, member details and loan details. I have been tasked with supplying a new database system that will store all information that was previously written. Librarians will now be able to access, update and add data in tables.

My Creative brief:
A local library is updating their management system. Previously they manually wrote down all books in their stock, member details and loan details. I have been tasked with supplying a new database system that will store all information that was previously written. Librarians will now be able to access, update and add data in tables;
Books(BookID, AuthorID, GenreID, Title, PublishYear, ISBN, CopiesAvailable, AuthorName), 
Authors(AuthorID, AuthorName).
If a new member joins, or if a librarian needs to contact existing members regarding a loan they can use:
Members(MemberID, MemberFirstname, MemberSurname, MemberAddress, MemberTown, MemberPhone, DateOfBirth).
Lastly the Loans(LoanID, BookID, MemberID, LoanDate, DueDate, ReturnDate) table allows the library to loan out books to their members and keep a tracked record of dates. Additionally the Genres(GenreID, GenreName) is used to identify the genre of all existing books.
If a new book is bought it can be added to the library system very simply with insert queries. If a new member joins the same process applies, alongside loans and authors.
I will write queries to add and delete data from tables. I will write queries that decrease the copies Available integer when a book is currently being loaned. I will write a stored function to tell the librarians who is over the age of 18, so their monthly newsletter can be sent to these members. I will use aggregate functions to show statistics like which genre is most popular, which book is loaned the most and similar events. I will connect tables with ID as the primary key, and foreign keys if i am linking them from existing tables. This ensures all data is linked and relationships are made. I will ensure all ID's are set to AUTOINCREMENT and all primary key values are UNIQUE. Multiple data types will be used: VARCHAR(255) for string values, INT for numerical values and YEAR for date values. I will enforce both NULL and NOT NULL where appropriate. Constraints will be implemented, such as ensuring the return date is before the loan Date and certain data columns values are always UNIQUE. I will also walk through how the database would be used on a daily basis from a users perspective, how to add books, update tables, add a new member and take out loans. I will also simulate making a mistake and undoing it. All queries made are relevant and needed for the librarian to carry out activities using the DB.
